---
---


In general, a pattern has four essential elements:

1. The pattern name is a handle we can use to describe a design problem, its
solutions, and consequences in a word or two. Naming a pattern immediately
increases our design vocabulary. It lets us design at a higher level of
abstraction. Having a vocabulary for patterns lets us talk about them with
our colleagues, in our documentation, and even to ourselves. It makes it
easier to think about designs and to communicate them and their trade-offs
to others. Finding good names has been one of the hardest parts of developing
our catalog.

2. The problem describes when to apply the pattern. It explains the problem
and its context. It might describe specific design problems such as how
to represent algorithms as objects. It might describe class or object
structures that are symptomatic of an inflexible design. Sometimes the
problem will include a list of conditions that must be met before it makes
sense to apply the pattern.

3. The solution describes the elements that make up the design, their
relationships, responsibilities, and collaborations. The solution doesn't
describe a particular concrete design or implementation, because a pattern
is like a template that can be applied in many different situations. Instead,
the pattern provides an abstract description of a design problem and how
a general arrangement of elements (classes and objects in our case) solves
it.

4. The consequences are the results and trade-offs of applying the pattern.
Though consequences are often unvoiced when we describe design decisions,
they are critical for evaluating design alternatives and for understanding
the costs and benefits of applying the pattern. The consequences for
software often concern space and time trade-offs. They may address language
and implementation issues as well. Since reuse is often a factor in
object-oriented design, the consequences of a pattern include its impact
on a system's flexibility, extensibility, or portability. Listing these
consequences explicitly helps you understand and evaluate them.


1. A class diagram depicts classes, their structure, andthe static
relationships between them.
2. An object diagram depicts a particular object structureat run-time.
3. An interaction diagram shows the flow of requests betweenobjects.


OMT (Object ModelingTechnique) 


The OMT notation for class inheritanceis a triangle connecting a subclass (LineShape in the figure)

An object reference representing a part-of
oraggregation relationship is indicated by an arrowheaded line with adiamond at
the base.

An
arrowheaded line without the diamond denotesacquaintance

Another useful thing to show is which classes instantiate whichothers.


设计模式笔记：

第一章：
	一.How Design Patterns Solve Design Problems(如何用设计模式来解决问题)
		1.寻找合适的对象Objects

The hard part about object-oriented design is decomposing a system into objects.

设计过程：
Object-oriented design methodologies favor many different approaches. You can
write a problem statement, single out the nouns and verbs, and create corresponding
classes and operations. Or you can focus on the collaborations and responsibilities
in your system. Or you can model the real world and translate the objects found
during analysis into design. There will always be disagreement on which approach
is best.



