---
---

3. File I/O

所有文件操作都可以用五种操作来表示：open,read,write,lseek,close(unbuffered I/O) (dup, fcntl, sync, fsync,and ioctl)

4. Files and Directories

stat: all the attributes of a file.
change the owner, change the permissions, and
so on.
遍历文件夹系统程序


4.3 File Types

4_1. Regular file
4_2. Directory file
4_3. Block special file
4_4. Character special file
4_5. FIFO
4_6. Socket
4_7. Symbolic link

5. Standard I/O Library

obviating 消除

6. System Data Files and Information

the password file
/etc/passwd and the group file /etc/group are two files that are frequently used by
various programs.

The getpwuid function is used by the ls(1) program to map the numerical user ID
contained in an i-node into a user’s login name. The getpwnam function is used by the
login(1) program when we enter our login name.


Supplementary 补充
The general principle is that every data file has at least three functions:
1. A get function that reads the next record, opening the file if necessary. These
functions normally return a pointer to a structure. A null pointer is returned
when the end of file is reached. Most of the get functions return a pointer to a
static structure, so we always have to copy the structure if we want to save it.
2. A set function that opens the file, if not already open, and rewinds the file. We
use this function when we know we want to start again at the beginning of the
file.
3. An end entry that closes the data file. As we mentioned earlier, we always have
to call this function when we’re done, to close all the files.

6.8 Login Accounting

大多数Unix系统提供两种数据文件，一种是utmp文件，用来追踪系统当前的记录情况。
一种是wtmp文件，用来追踪登入和登出。



Two data files provided with most UNIX systems are the utmp file, which keeps track of
all the users currently logged in, and the wtmp file, which keeps track of all logins and
logouts. With Version 7, one type of record was written to both files, a binary record
consisting of the following structure:
struct utmp {
	char ut_line[8]; /* tty line: "ttyh0", "ttyd0", "ttyp0", ... */
	char ut_name[8]; /* login name */
	long ut_time; /* seconds since Epoch */
};



7. Process Environment

Before looking at the process control primitives in the next chapter, we need to examine
the environment of a single process. In this chapter, we’ll see how the main function is
called when the program is executed, how command-line arguments are passed to the
new program, what the typical memory layout looks like, how to allocate additional
memory, how the process can use environment variables, and various ways for the
process to terminate. Additionally, we’ll look at the longjmp and setjmp functions
and their interaction with the stack. We finish the chapter by examining the resource
limits of a process.



7.6 Memory Layout of a C Program

• Text segment 正文段
• Initialized data segment
• Uninitialized data segment
• Stack
• Heap

7.7 Shared Libraries

Another advantage of
shared libraries is that library functions can be replaced with new versions without
having to relink edit every program that uses the library (assuming that the number and
type of arguments haven’t changed).

Different systems provide different ways for a program to say that it wants to use or
not use the shared libraries.

7.8 Memory Allocation



8. Process Control 

We now turn to the process control provided by the UNIX System. This includes the
creation of new processes, program execution, and process termination. We also look at
the various IDs that are the property of the process — real, effective, and saved; user and
group IDs—and how they’re affected by the process control primitives. Interpreter files
and the system function are also covered. We conclude the chapter by looking at the
process accounting provided by most UNIX systems. This lets us look at the process
control functions from a different perspective.


进程创建  程序执行 进程结束 

Process 0 is is usually the scheduler process and is often known as
the swapper.

Process ID 1 is usually the init process and
is invoked by the kernel at the end of the bootstrap procedure.

copy-on-write (COW):These regions are shared by the parent and the child and
have their protection changed by the kernel to read-only. If either process tries to
modify these regions, the kernel then makes a copy of that piece of memory only,
typically a ‘‘page’’ in a virtual memory system.

In general, we never know whether the child starts executing before the parent, or vice
versa. The order depends on the scheduling algorithm used by the kernel.

The standard I/O library,
however, is buffered. Recall from Section 5.12 that standard output is line buffered if it’s
connected to a terminal device; otherwise, it’s fully buffered. When we run the
program interactively, we get only a single copy of the first printf line, because the
standard output buffer is flushed by the newline.

It is important that the parent and the child share the same file offset. Consider a
process that forks a child, then waits for the child to complete. Assume that both
processes write to standard output as part of their normal processing. If the parent has
its standard output redirected (by a shell, perhaps), it is essential that the parent’s file
offset be updated by the child when the child writes to standard output. In this case,
the child can write to standard output while the parent is waiting for it; on completion
of the child, the parent can continue writing to standard output, knowing that its output
will be appended to whatever the child wrote. If the parent and the child did not share
the same file offset, this type of interaction would be more difficult to accomplish and
would require explicit actions by the parent.

If both parent and child write to the same descriptor, without any form of
synchronization, such as having the parent wait for the child, their output will be
intermixed (assuming it’s a descriptor that was open before the fork).

• Real user ID, real group ID, effective user ID, and effective group ID
• Supplementary group IDs
• Process group ID
• Session ID
• Controlling2. When a process wants to execute a different program. This is common for
shells. In this case, the child does an exec (which we describe in Section 8.10)
right after it returns from the fork.

Some operating systems combine the operations from step 2—a fork Some operating Some operating systems combine the operations from step 2—a fork followed by an systems 

Regardless of how a process terminates, the same code in the kernel is eventually
executed. This kernel code closes all the open descriptors for the process, releases the
memory that it was using, and so on.


UNIX System terminology, a process that has terminated, but whose parent has not yet

combine the operations from step 2—a fork followed by an terminal
• The set-user-ID and set-group-ID flags
• Current working directory
• Root directory
• File mode creation mask
• Signal mask and dispositions
• The close-on-exec flag for any open file descriptors
• Environment
• Attached shared memory segments
• Memory mappings
• Resource limits


1. When a process wants to duplicate itself so that the parent and the child can
each execute different sections of code at the same time. This is common for
network servers—the parent waits for a service request from a client. When the
request arrives, the parent calls fork and lets the child handle the request. The
parent goes back to waiting for the next service request to arrive.


2. When a process wants to execute a different program. This is common for
shells. In this case, the child does an exec (which we describe in Section 8.10)
right after it returns from the fork.

Some operating systems combine the operations from step 2—a fork followed by an exec—into a single operation called a spawn.

Regardless of how a process terminates, the same code in the kernel is eventually
executed. This kernel code closes all the open descriptors for the process, releases the
memory that it was using, and so on.


UNIX System terminology, a process that has terminated, but whose parent has not yet waited for it, is called a zombie.


8.9

For a parent and child relationship, we often have the following scenario. After the
fork, both the parent and the child have something to do. For example, the parent
could update a record in a log file with the child’s process ID, and the child might have
to create a file for the parent. In this example, we require that each process tell the other
when it has finished its initial set of operations, and that each wait for the other to
complete, before heading off on its own. The following code illustrates this scenario:


#include "apue.h"
TELL_WAIT(); /* set things up for TELL_xxx & WAIT_xxx */
if ((pid = fork()) < 0) {
err_sys("fork error");
} else if (pid == 0) { /* child */
/* child does whatever is necessary ... */
TELL_PARENT(getppid()); /* tell parent we’re done */
WAIT_PARENT(); /* and wait for parent */
/* and the child continues on its way ... */
exit(0);
}
/* parent does whatever is necessary ... */
TELL_CHILD(pid); /* tell child we’re done */
WAIT_CHILD(); /* and wait for child */
/* and the parent continues on its way ... */
exit(0);


8.10 exec Functions

When a process calls one of the exec functions, that process is completely
replaced by the new program, and the new program starts executing at its main
function.

merely 仅仅

The next difference concerns the passing of the argument list (l stands for list and v
stands for vector). The functions execl, execlp, and execle require each of the
command-line arguments to the new program to be specified as separate arguments.
We mark the end of the arguments with a null pointer. For the other four functions
(execv, execvp, execve, and fexecve), we have to build an array of pointers to the
arguments, and the address of this array is the argument to these three functions.

propagated 传播

If this flag
is set, the descriptor is closed across an exec. Otherwise, the descriptor is left open
across the exec. The default is to leave the descriptor open across the exec unless we
specifically set the close-on-exec flag using fcntl.

supplementary 补充

